hi i'm matt from espares in this video
I'll be showing you how to change the
door seal on this Hoover
OPH 7160 washing machine now on this
machine it's not possible to remove the
front panel to access the door sill and
replace it so what I'm going to be doing
is simply going in through the door
porthole now if necessary if you need
more space to work it's possible to put
the machine carefully onto its back
which allows the drum to fall away from
the front of the machine giving you more
area to work and you can also if
necessary remove the door via these two
hinge screws here
but I'm going to be going in just from
the fronton machine
safety first always unplug the appliance
before carrying out any work and the
first thing I'm going to start by doing
is to take the top off via these three
screws at the back the door seal on this
model has very unsightly mold and
bacteria inside it it also has some
discoloration
from the Sun now if your door seal isn't
as unsightly as this one it is possible
to remove and clean the mold and
bacteria away and also prevent it from
building up you can see me doing that in
another espares video but as this one is
in such a poor state I'm going to be
replacing it the first thing I need to
do is to remove the outer retaining band
from the outside of the door seal using
a flat headed screwdriver
I then need to push the door sale inside
the machine so I can access the inner
retaining band simply done just pull the
seal off the lip and fold inside the
drum now on some models it's possible to
simply unscrew the retaining band but
for this one I'm going to use the end of
a socket to hold the nut into position
while I unscrew it with a Phillips head
screwdriver with the retaining band now
loose I can simply work the seal away
from the drum you can then grab your
brand new seal now on some door seals it
may be necessary to lubricate the lip
with a little washing up liquid but this
one's actually come pre lubricated and
push it inside the Machine and then
using the marker this goes at the top
and the drain hole there goes at the
bottom to make sure that the door seal
is in the right position you can then
work the lip around the rim of the drum
itself
with the door still in place you need to
pop it inside the drum again and then
refit your inner retaining band if the
screw isn't in the right position you
can easily move it by holding on to the
seal before tightening it up with the
inner retaining band in place now all I
need to do is fit the seal onto the
outer lip of the machine and replace the
outer retaining band with the door sill
in place now I just need to fit the
outer retaining band and this just kit
connects together with these two sets of
teeth helping it to remain nice and
tight so there we have it one new door
seal fitted to this Hoover washing
machine now it's a good idea to run a
test cycle just to ensure that it's
fitted correctly door seals and
thousands of other spares and
accessories for all makes and
manufacturers of washing machine are
available on the espares website
thanks for watching